So it should be possible to build a better forum. I am going to vomit up what I have in my head so far.

The thing I am trying to go for is polite and thoughtful discourse between
groups that otherwise might have hated each other. I am not at all certain how
to make that work. I want this to work without hand selecting a group. I want
to be able to take people from 4chan or youtube, and turn them into productive
members of the internet.


------------------------
DISPLAY ORDER
------------------------
The core lever I have in mind is putting behaviour that I like at the top, and
behaviour that I don't like at the bottom. Or some equivalent. Maybe a sidebar?
Anyway, it would arranged fractally: the response to a post that I like most
will apear as the top child, so on so forth for all decendents.

How much a post is favoured is determined by summing the scores of all its 
decendants. So if someone calls someone else a bad name, and someone takes them
down in a very highly rated manner, we all get to see the insult? hmm... 
Okay, decendants add iff the post is positive on its own. That makes sense. 
This makes it impossible to gain credit for dogpiling already unpopular people.
So the only incentivized method of disagreeing with hated people is to downvote
them.

There is a configurable sidebar which displays posts (not threads) in according
to the configurations. By default, it shows things liked by your ingroup, but
you can set for a bunch of things.
------------------------
VOTING
------------------------

Three votes: ingroup like, outgroup like, and dislike.

The results of voting are mostly private.

------------------------
GRAPH THEORY
------------------------

The results of voting are a bipartite graph of posts, users, and users->posts.
This is projected on to the users side of the graph, and community clusters
are found. If your group gets big enough, you are told you are a part of it.
you can choose to hide your membership if you want to keep your identity small.

Likes are a normal edge, dislikes are a negative edge, and outgroup likes are
not an edge.

Maximum flows between groups are calculated, to determine who hates who. This
part is important.

-------------------------
RANKING
-------------------------
each like is normally worth +1. However, if likes come from two different 
groups, they are worth more depending on how far apart the groups are.
This is the inverse of the maximum flow between the two groups, times some 
coefficientwith, some cap, at maybe 5 or 10, in the case of groups with 0 or 
negative maximum flow.

There should also be some magic scaling based on the size of the groups.

-------------------------
VULNERABILITIES
-------------------------

What could happen that makes this not work?

No participation. No one likes the system, because it doesn't give them anything.

Homogenity. Everyone likes all the same things, and no useful groups are formed.

Defect Defect. Everyone coordinates to hate the outgroup, and no bridges are built.

Cat posters. Pointless junk clogs the forum, because it is the only thing people
agree on.

So. Lets crack these open. The first one I think is the most important. In addition
to helping in the aggregate, every additional member has to gain from it. This
will be hard. 

The second should be pretty easy to break, I don't think that it even needs
anything new. Enemies who have even the slightest thing to offer to the main
group will rocket to the tops of the rankings nearly instantaneously. This
should attract more enemies.

Defect Defect should be in the same boat. ANYONE breaking ranks to cooperate
will rocket to the tops of the post listings.

Cat posters. This is hard. How do I distinguish between the greatest speech of
all time, and a pun thread? I could change the voting, to carve between "like"
and "respect". But Then I have lots of axes. I have ingroup/outgroup, like/dislike
and respect/disrespect. So I want 
"Support" (+respect,+ingroup,+like)
"like" (+like)
"Respect" (+respect)
"dislike" (-respect,-ingroup,-like)
